BUILDING.md, before:

<!---
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Building HBase native client

The HBase native client build using cmake and produces a linux library.


# Dependencies

The easiest way to build hbase-native-client is to
use [Docker](https://www.docker.com/). This will mean that any platform
with docker can be used to build the hbase-native-client. It will also
mean that you're building with the same versions of all dependencies that
the client is tested with.

On OSX the current boot2docker solution will work however it's pretty
slow. If things get too slow using [dinghy](https://github.com/codekitchen/dinghy)
can help speed things up by using nfs.

If possible pairing virtual box with dinghy will result in the fastest,
most stable docker environment.

However none of them is a must.

# Building using docker

To start with make sure that you have built the java project using
`mvn package -DskipTests`. That will allow all tests to spin up a standalone
hbase instance from the jar's created.

Then go into the hbase-native-client directory and run `./bin/start-docker.sh`
that will build the docker development environment and when complete will
drop you into a shell on a linux vm with all the dependencies needed installed.


# CMake

```
cmake .
make
make install
```

Commit message:

HBASE-22201 Fixing a number of issues with test cases (#1)
* fix classpath and meta region spec
* fix result-test failing on EstimatedSize assertion
* allow classpath to be set through env var
* update building instructions
* use correct classpath file for makefile test execution
* cleanup env between tests
* fix cell-tests which don't take string capacity into account with size estimates

BUILDING.md, after:

<!---
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Building HBase native client

The HBase native client build using cmake and produces a linux library.


# Dependencies

The easiest way to build hbase-native-client is to
use [Docker](https://www.docker.com/). This will mean that any platform
with docker can be used to build the hbase-native-client. It will also
mean that you're building with the same versions of all dependencies that
the client is tested with.

On OSX the current boot2docker solution will work however it's pretty
slow. If things get too slow using [dinghy](https://github.com/codekitchen/dinghy)
can help speed things up by using nfs.

If possible pairing virtual box with dinghy will result in the fastest,
most stable docker environment.

However none of them is a must.

# Building using docker

Go into the hbase-native-client directory and run `./bin/start-docker.sh`
that will build the docker development environment and when complete will
drop you into a shell on a linux vm with all the dependencies needed installed.

To start with make sure that you have built the java project using
`mvn package -DskipTests`. That will allow all tests to spin up a standalone
hbase instance from the jar's created.

*Note*: you can run the HBase Maven build outside of docker but the cached
classpath used by the unit tests may not reflect the paths from within the
docker container.

# CMake

```
cmake .
make
make install
```

# Running tests

To run the tests, you can use `make test` or run each compiled test individually
as they are built in the top level directory of the module. For example from the
hbase-native-client directory you can execute `./client-test`.
